# CS-340-Client-Server-Development


- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Developing adaptable code is one of the most important aspects of software development. The CRUD Python module I developed for this project is a great example of flexible, reusable code. Rather than developing code for a single purpose, it is often beneficial to develop code with scalability and flexibility in mind. This can be achieved by hard-coding as little as possible, and instead using functions which can take a variety of inputs, rather than baking inputs in. For example, rather than choosing to import a specific database into this project, I instead chose to allow the functions in the CRUD module to apply to any MongoDB database. Once the database is added at the beginning of the project, any of the functions can be used on that database. This makes the CRUD module useful for other projects, as I can simply specify a different database, and all of the functions contained within the module should still work.

- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Computer Science requires an adaptable approach to problem solving. Since computers are capable of solving so many different problems in so many different ways - each with their own strengths and weaknesses -  it is important for Computer Scientists to stay current on the latest technologies for solving these problems. Some good examples of the technologies I used in this project are MongoDB and Python. While I already knew how to do basic programming in Python, this project required interfacing with a MongoDB database. This required me to learn about MongoDB, its JSON-based structure, and basic data manipulation through tools like PyMongo. The ability to quickly learn new technologies means being able to come at a problem in a variety of ways. 

- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientists make computers more usable for their customers. This is a broad statement, but it encapsulates the many things a computer scientist must do to do their job effectively. Through the development of tools and applications, Computer Scientists increase the amount of work computers can do for their clients. A great example of this additional usability comes with the Grazioso Salvare project. The company had already been using a database for keeping track of the animals in their shelter, but with the use of the dashboard creataed for this project, they are better able to visualize each record in their database, through a user-friendly interface. Rather than relying on knowledge of how to access and manipulate the database, they can now view the data contained in the database in a more effective way.
